Resonant Baby Auto Rocker
=========================

I was bouncing my bub in her baby bouncer and thought "there has to be
a better way to keep bub bouncing than to sit here and manually do
it." At first I thought about some mechanical linkage to bounce the
chair, but then later in the shower the idea came to me.

A wire hoop baby bouncer is a damped simple harmonic
oscillator. Simple harmonic oscillators have a resonant frequency. As
the force driving the system to osciallate approaches the resonant
frequency, the energy transfer becomes very efficient, and a small
input results in a large bounce.

As the frequency of the stimulus goes higher or lower than the
resonant frequency, the applied force actually starts to dampen the
oscillations, rather than increase them.

If I could measure the bounce frequency of chair + bub, then I could
drive an oscillator at that frequency and that should make the chair
bounce.

Because it would be driven at the ideal frequency, I shouldn't need to
push against anything. All I would need is a reaction mass attached to
the oscillation mechanism. Every action has an equal and opposite
reaction, so as the mechanism pushed the weight down, the chair would
rise up, and visa versa.

The oscillation of the reaction mass could be driven by a stepper
motor or a solenoid. I decided to go down the stepper motor route but
on a later version I may try a solenoid to bounce a counter weight.

I had a quick browse of patents for automatic baby bouncers and I
could not see this idea of a resonant counterweight method described
anywhere. As such, I am hereby releasing this invention into the
public domain for anyone to use. The idea and invention are public domain.

The software to control the unit is released under the GPL v3 license.
